Whether it's from a database,
API or any other source,
manipulating and consuming data is something that every developer needs to be able to do.
Getting exactly the information you want out of
a large or complex set of data can be frustrating.
We'll cover how the tools and rules we've
learned so far can help us navigate these data structures.
Here are some quick tips when working with large data sets.
The first tip for working with large data sets
is to determine the points and shape that you need.
When we talk about data shape, we're talking about,
is it an object inside of an array or an array inside of an object.
Being able to give your program exactly the
shape that fits it best will make your life a lot easier.
The second tip is to locate one individual item to use as an example.
Oftentimes, an API will send you back a long array of objects,
and those objects can be complicated.
Just pull one out and find the values that you need.
Another tip is that sometimes working up the data tree is easier than down.
We want to deal with API responses like we do text and read it from the top down,
but it's often easier to start with a specific object or value we
want to get and find the path to it as we work our way up the data.
The last tip is to extract the information you need as soon as you can.
You probably aren't going to use 100 percent of an API response in your app,
so grab out the information you need in the same function that handles the response.
Most of the time,
data manipulation skills will help you work with data coming from outside your app,
for example, from an API.
Later on in the lesson,
we will cover how we can work with the DOM in a functional way,
and this will be the foundation for building functional apps in JavaScript.
In the next exercise,
you'll get to work with some real API response data.
Maybe these tips will come in handy.